.TH pump 1 "9 June 2008"
.SH "NAME"
pump \- accelerate remote compilation with distcc
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B pump
.I BUILD-COMMAND [ARGS]
\& ...
.BR
.PP
eval `
.B pump
--startup `;
.I BUILD-COMMAND [ARGS]
\& ...
;
.B pump
--shutdown
.BR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B pump
is part of distcc.
It is used for distcc's pump mode.
Distcc's pump mode accelerates remote compilation with distcc
by also distributing preprocessing to the servers.
.PP
For a detailed description of pump mode, including most notably some
.B important restrictions,
see the
.BR distcc(1)
man page, in particular the
.B HOW PUMP-MODE WORKS
section
and the
.B RESTRICTIONS ON PUMP MODE
section.
.PP
The simplest usage is the form
.RS
.B pump
.I COMMAND [ARG]
\& ...
.RE
This will start an include server for distcc's "pump" mode;
optionally run
.B lsdistcc
to compute the distcc host list;
set some auxiliary environment variables;
change PATH to use the distcc client in the same directory as the "pump"
script;
execute
.I COMMAND
with the specified
.I ARG(s)
\& ;
and then shut down the include server.
The
.I COMMAND
is typically a parallel build command, such as
"make -j80", that will do many concurrent invocations of distcc.
.PP
An alternative way of invoking
.B pump
is to explicitly invoke "pump --startup"
to start the include server and "pump --shutdown" to stop the include server.
The "pump --startup" command will start up the include server, and will print
out some environment variable settings.  These environment variables are used
to communicate between the pump-mode "distcc" client and the include
server, and to communicate between "pump --startup" and "pump --shutdown".
The caller of "pump --startup" is responsible for setting those environment
variables before invoking "distcc" or "pump --shutdown".
.PP
For example:
.RS
eval `pump --startup`
.br
make -j80
.br
pump --shutdown
.RE
.PP
Note that distcc's pump-mode assumes that sources files will not be
 modified during
the lifetime of the include server, so modifying source files during a build
may cause inconsistent results.
.SH "INVOKING LSDISTCC"
When invoked in either the simple "
.B pump
.I COMMAND [ARG]
\&... " form,
or as "
.B pump --startup
\&", the
.B pump
script will invoke
.B lsdistcc
\& whenever DISTCC_POTENTIAL_HOSTS is set and DISTCC_HOSTS isn't.
It will pass the value of DISTCC_POTENTIAL_HOSTS to
.B lsdistcc
and use the output of
.B lsdistcc
to set DISTCC_HOSTS.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
.B --help
Displays summary instructions.
.TP
.B --startup
Starts an include server, and outputs the environment variable settings
needed for
.BR distcc(1)
or
.B pump --shutdown
to access it.
.TP
.B --shutdown
Shuts down an include server started up by
.B pump --startup.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The following environment variables are all optional.
.TP
.B DISTCC_LOCATION
The location of the distcc bin directory, which is
normally inferred from the link-resolved dirname of
argv[0]. If this location is in fact the bin directory
inside an installation (as will be the case when the
pump script in the installation executes), then
Python executables and distcc itself will be retrieved
from the parent directory of the location.
.TP
.B "DISTCC_MAX_DISCREPANCY"
see the
.BR distcc(1)
man page.
.TP
.B DISTCC_POTENTIAL_HOSTS
The distcc servers that will be queried by lsdistcc
in order to produce a value for DISTCC_HOSTS.
This value may be unset or null. In such
cases, lsdistcc will not be invoked, and
distcc will use DISTCC_HOSTS or the distcc hosts
configuration file, as described in the "Host Specifications"
section of
.BR distcc(1).
.TP
.B DISTCC_HOSTS
This variable is passed through to distcc but only if
DISTCC_POTENTIAL_HOSTS is not set.
.TP
.B LSDISTCC_ARGS
Extra arguments to pass to lsdistcc.  See
.B lsdistcc --help
for more details.
.TP
.B
INCLUDE_SERVER_ARGS
Extra arguments to pass to the include server.
.TP
.B
PYTHONOPTIMIZE
If set to "", then Python optimization is disabled.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.B pump make -j20
.SH "BUGS"
.\" TODO:
.\" Fix inconsistency between BUGS section and bug reporting instructions
.\" in the AUTHORS section, both here and in distcc.1 and elsewhere.
If you think you have found a distcc bug, please see the file
.I reporting-bugs.txt
in the documentation directory for information on how to report it.
.SH "AUTHORS"
The pump script and distcc's pump mode were written by Nils Klarlund,
Manos Renieris, Fergus Henderson, and Craig Silverstein. Please report
bugs to <distcc@lists.samba.org>.
.SH "LICENCE"
.B pump
is part of distcc.
You are free to use distcc.  distcc (including this manual) may be
copied, modified or distributed only under the terms of the GNU
General Public Licence version 2 or later.  distcc comes with
absolutely no warranty.  A copy of the GPL is included in the file
COPYING.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.\" TODO: add lsdistcc(1) once we have a man page for lsdistcc.
\fBdistcc\fR(1), \fBdistccd\fR(1), \fBinclude_server\fR(1), \fBgcc\fR(1), and
\fBmake\fR(1)
